---
layout: page
title: 
permalink: /Effects-of-Spin-on-Magnetized-Binary-Neutron-Star-Mergers-and-Jet-Launching/
vid: assets/video
nav: false
nav_order: 2
---

<div class="alert alert-block alert-success">
     <span style="color:red;font-weight:400;font-size:40px;line-height:1em">
        Effects of Spin on Magnetized Binary Neutron Star Mergers and Jet Launching 
     </span>
     <br/><br/>
     <span style="color:black;font-weight:500;font-size:20px">
     Milton Ruiz,
     Antonios Tsokaros,
     Vasileios Paschalidis, and
     Stuart L. Shapiro
     </span>
</div>

Date: 22 Feb 2019    &emsp;&emsp; [arXiv:1902.08636](https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.08636)

<br/><br/>


# Abstract 
  Events GW170817 and GRB 170817A provide the best confirmation so far
  that compact binary mergers where at least one of the companions is
  a neutron star can be the progenitors of short gamma-ray bursts
  (sGRBs).
  An open question for GW170817 remains the values and impact of the initial
  neutron star spins. The initial
  spins could possibly  affect
  the remnant black hole mass and spin, the remnant disk and the
  formation and lifetime of a jet and its outgoing electromagnetic
  Poynting luminosity. Here we summarize our general relativistic
  magnetohydrodynamic simulations of spinning, neutron star binaries
  undergoing merger and delayed collapse to a black hole. The binaries
  consist of two identical stars, modeled as $\Gamma=2$ polytropes, in
  quasicircular orbit, each with spins
  $\chi_{\rm{NS}}=-0.053,\,0,\,0.24$, or $0.36$.  The stars are endowed
  initially with a dipolar magnetic field extending from the interior
  into the exterior, as in a radio pulsar. Following merger, the
  redistribution of angular momentum by magnetic braking and magnetic
  turbulent viscosity in the hypermassive neutron star (HMNS) remnant,
  along with the loss of angular momentum due to gravitational
  radiation, induce the formation of a massive, nearly uniformly
  rotating inner core surrounded by a magnetized Keplerian disk-like
  envelope. The HMNS eventually collapses to a black hole, with spin
  $a/M_{\rm BH} \simeq 0.78$ independent of the initial spin of the
  neutron stars, surrounded by a magnetized accretion disk. The larger
  the initial neutron star spin the heavier the disk. After $\Delta
  t\sim 3000M-4000 M \sim 45(M_{\rm NS}/1.625 M_\odot)\rm ms-60(M_{\rm
    NS}/1.625M_\odot)\rm ms$ following merger, a mildly relativistic
  jet is launched.  The lifetime of the jet [$\Delta t\sim 100(M_{\rm
      NS}/1.625M_\odot){\rm ms}-140(M_{\rm NS} /1.625M_\odot)\rm ms$]
  and its outgoing Poynting luminosity [$L_{\rm EM}\sim 10^{51.5\pm
      1}\rm erg/s$] are consistent with typical sGRBs, as well as with
  the Blandford--Znajek mechanism for launching jets and their
  associated Poynting luminosities.


<br/><br/>

<div class="alert alert-block alert-info">
     <span style="color:red;font-weight:400;font-size:40px;line-height:1em">
        Movies
     </span>
     <br/>
     <span style="color:black;font-weight:500;font-size:20px">
     Guangkuo Liu,
     Kyle Nelli,
     Minh N.T. Nguyen,
     Milton Ruiz,
     Stuart L. Shapiro, and
     Antonios Tsokaros
     </span>
</div>

<br/>

