---
layout: page
title: 
permalink: /Jet-Launching-from-Merging-Magnetized-Binary-Neutron-Stars-with-Realistic-Equations-of-State/
vid: assets/video
nav: false
nav_order: 2
---

<div class="alert alert-block alert-success">
     <span style="color:red;font-weight:400;font-size:40px;line-height:1em">
        Jet Launching from Merging Magnetized Binary Neutron Stars with Realistic Equations of State
     </span>
     <br/><br/>
     <span style="color:black;font-weight:500;font-size:20px">
Milton Ruiz,
Antonios Tsokaros, and
Stuart L. Shapiro
     </span>
</div>

Date: 22 Oct 2021   &emsp;&emsp; [arXiv:https:2110.11968](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.11968)
<br/><br/>


# Abstract 
  We perform general relativistic magnetohydrodynamic (GRMHD) simulations  of quasi-circular,
  binary neutron stars that merge and undergo delayed or prompt collapse to a black hole (BH).
  The stars are irrotational and  modeled using an SLy or an H4 nuclear equation of state (EOS).
  To assess the impact of the initial magnetic field configuration on jet launching, we
  endow the stars with a pure poloidal magnetic field that is initially dynamically unimportant
  and is either confined to the stellar interior or extends from the interior into the
  exterior, as in typical pulsars. Consistent with previous results, we find that the BH + disk
  remnants originating only from binaries that form hypermassive neutron stars (HMNSs) and undergo
  delayed collapse can drive magnetically-powered jets. We find that the closer the total
  mass of the binary is to the threshold value for prompt collapse, the shorter is the time delay
  between the gravitational wave peak amplitude and jet launching. This time delay also strongly
  depends on the initial magnetic field configuration. We find that seed magnetic field configurations
  confined to the stellar interior can launch a jet over~$\sim 25\,\rm ms$ later than those with
  pulsar-like magnetic fields. The lifetime of the jet [$\Delta t\lesssim 150\,\rm ms$] and its
  outgoing Poynting luminosity [$L_{\rm EM}\sim 10^{52\pm 1}\rm erg/s$] are consistent with the
  short gamma-ray burst engine lifetime, as well as with the Blandford--Znajek mechanism for launching jets and their
  associated Poynting luminosities. Our numerical results also suggest that the dynamical ejection
  of matter can be enhanced by the magnetic field. Therefore, GRMHD studies are required to explain
  kilonova signals from GW170818-like events.


<br/><br/>

<div class="alert alert-block alert-info">
     <span style="color:red;font-weight:400;font-size:40px;line-height:1em">
        Movies
     </span>
     <br/>
     <span style="color:black;font-weight:500;font-size:20px">
Jing Zhou,
Jinghan Huang,
Samuel Qunell,
Milton Ruiz,
Stuart L. Shapiro, and
Antonios Tsokaros
     </span>
</div>

<br/>

