---
layout: page
title: 
permalink: /Jet-Launching-from-Binary-Neutron-Star-Mergers:-Incorporating-Neutrino-Transport-and-Magnetic-Fields/
vid: assets/video
nav: false
nav_order: 2
---

<div class="alert alert-block alert-success">
     <span style="color:red;font-weight:400;font-size:40px;line-height:1em">
        Jet Launching from Binary Neutron Star Mergers: Incorporating Neutrino Transport and Magnetic Fields
     </span>
     <br/><br/>
     <span style="color:black;font-weight:500;font-size:20px">
Lunan Sun,
Milton Ruiz,
Stuart L. Shapiro, and
Antonios Tsokaros
     </span>
</div>

Date: 25 Feb 2022   &emsp;&emsp; [arXiv:2202.12901](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.12901)
<br/><br/>


# Abstract 
We perform general relativistic, magnetohydrodynamic (GRMHD) simulations of binary neutron stars in quasi-circular orbit incorporating neutrino transport. Our new radiative transport module for neutrinos adopts a general relativistic, truncated-moment (M1) formalism. The binaries consist of two identical, irrotational stars supported by the SLy nuclear equation of state (EOS) and initially threaded with a poloidal magnetic field that extends from the stellar interior into the exterior, as in typical pulsars. 

{% raw %}
We insert neutrino processes shortly after the merger and focus on the role of neutrinos in launching a jet following the collapse of the hypermassive neutron star (HMNS) remnant to a spinning black hole (BH). We treat two microphysics versions, one (a “warm-up”) evolving single neutrino species and considering only the charged-current processes, and the other evolving three species (ν<sub>e</sub>, ν&#x0304;<sub>e</sub>, ν<sub>x</sub>) with all related processes. 

We trace the evolution until the system reaches a quasi-equilibrium state after BH formation. We find that after $t \sim 5.5 \, \rm ms$ the BH+disk remnant launches an incipient jet. The electromagnetic Poynting luminosity is $\sim 10^{53} \, \rm erg/s$, consistent with typical short gamma-ray bursts (sGRBs). The effect of neutrino cooling shortens the lifetime of the HMNS, which lowers the amplitude of the major peak of the gravitational-wave (GW) spectrum. 

After BH formation, neutrinos help clear out the matter near the BH poles, resulting in a stronger force-free environment. The neutrino luminosity resides in the range $\sim 10^{52-53} \, \rm erg/s$ once quasi-equilibrium is achieved. Comparing with the neutrino-free models, we observe that the inclusion of neutrinos yields similar ejecta masses and is inefficient in transporting angular momentum.
{% endraw %}




<br/><br/>

<div class="alert alert-block alert-info">
     <span style="color:red;font-weight:400;font-size:40px;line-height:1em">
        Movies
     </span>
     <br/>
     <span style="color:black;font-weight:500;font-size:20px">
Jinghan Huang,
Jing Zhou,
Eric Yu,
Mit Kotak,
Lunan Sun,
Milton Ruiz,
Stuart L. Shapiro, and
Antonios Tsokaros
     </span>
</div>

<br/>

---
#### Case C: Magnetized

<iframe width="760" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/fH_GgvIpSf8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br/>

---
#### Gravitational Waveforms for Case C

<iframe width="760" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ASLqsHx5kLc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br/>

---
#### Case E: Magnetized and Neutrinos (Full)

<iframe width="760" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ep2_CXj_slE" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br/>
